add(mc): new cloud-azure-database-postgresql MC (#3173)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/cloud-azure-database-postgresql.md

---
id: cloud-azure-database-postgresql
title: Azure Database for PostgreSQL
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Pack assets

### Templates

The Monitoring Connector **Azure Database for PostgreSQL** brings a host template:

* **Cloud-Azure-Database-PostgreSQL-custom**

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Cloud-Azure-Database-PostgreSQL-custom" label="Cloud-Azure-Database-PostgreSQL-custom">

| Service Alias  | Service Template                                          | Service Description                                          |
|:---------------|:----------------------------------------------------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Connections    | Cloud-Azure-Database-PostgreSQL-Connections-Api-custom    | Monitor Azure Database for PostgreSQL connections statistics |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Connections    | Cloud-Azure-Database-PostgreSQL-Connections-Api-custom    | Monitor Azure Database for PostgreSQL connection statistics |
```

Author: On ne teste pas la connexion, mais on donne des stats sur le nombre de connexions

> | Connections    | Cloud-Azure-Database-PostgreSQL-Connections-Api-custom    | Monitor Azure Database for PostgreSQL connections statistics |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Connections    | Cloud-Azure-Database-PostgreSQL-Connections-Api-custom    | Monitor the number of connections to the Azure PostgreSQL Database |
```

| AZURERESOURCE      | Set resource name or ID (required)                                                                                         |                   |             |
| AZURERESOURCEGROUP | Set resource group (required if resource's name is used)                                                                   |                   | X           |
| AZURESUBSCRIPTION  | Set Azure subscription (required if logged to several subscriptions)                                                       |                   | X           |
| AZURETENANT        | Set Azure tenant ID                                                                                                        |                   | X           |
| PROXYURL           | Proxy URL if any                                                                                                           |                   |             |
| EXTRAOPTIONS       | Any extra option you may want to add to every command (a --verbose flag for example). All options are listed [here](#available-options).                       |                   |             |

> > Set the following options in the EXTRAOPTIONS macro if you are monitoring resource from Microsoft Azure operated by 21Vianet (Azure China):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Set the following options in the EXTRAOPTIONS macro if you are monitoring resources from Microsoft Azure operated by 21Vianet (Azure China):
```

|:-----------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|:-----------:|
| TIMEFRAME              | Set timeframe in seconds (e.g. '3600' to check last 60 minutes).                                   | 900               |             |
| INTERVAL               | Set interval of the metric query (can be : PT1M, PT5M, PT15M, PT30M, PT1H, PT6H, PT12H, PT24H)                                                     | PT5M              |             |
| AGGREGATION            | Define how the data must be aggregated. Available aggregations: 'minimum', 'maximum', 'average', 'total' and 'count'. Can be called multiple times | Maximum             |             |
| FILTERMETRIC           | Filter metrics (available metrics: 'Backup Storage used', 'Server Log storage used', 'Storage Percent', 'Storage Used'). |                   |             |
| FILTERDIMENSION        | Specify the metric dimension (required for some specific metrics) Syntax example: --filter-dimension="$metricname eq '$metricvalue'". |

> | WARNINGSERVERLOGUSAGE  | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |

Reviewer: where what?

> | WARNINGSERVERLOGUSAGE  | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |
> | CRITICALSERVERLOGUSAGE | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |
> | WARNINGSTORAGEBACKUP   | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |
> | CRITICALSTORAGEBACKUP  | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |
> | WARNINGSTORAGEPERCENT  | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |
> | CRITICALSTORAGEPERCENT | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |
> | WARNINGSTORAGEUSED     | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |
> | CRITICALSTORAGEUSED    | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |

Author: ```suggestion
| WARNINGSERVERLOGUSAGE  | Thresholds                                                                                  |                   |             |
| CRITICALSERVERLOGUSAGE | Thresholds                                                                                 |                   |             |
| WARNINGSTORAGEBACKUP   | Thresholds                                                                                 |                   |             |
| CRITICALSTORAGEBACKUP  | Thresholds                                                                                 |                   |             |
| WARNINGSTORAGEPERCENT  | Thresholds                                                                                |                   |             |
| CRITICALSTORAGEPERCENT | Thresholds                                                                                 |                   |             |
| WARNINGSTORAGEUSED     | Thresholds                                                                                   |                   |             |
| CRITICALSTORAGEUSED    | Thresholds                                                                                 |                   |             |
```

| Macro              | Description                                                                                        | Default value     | Mandatory   |
|:-------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------|:-----------:|
| TIMEFRAME          | Set timeframe in seconds (e.g. '3600' to check last 60 minutes).                                   | 900               |             |
| INTERVAL           | Set interval of the metric query (can be : PT1M, PT5M, PT15M, PT30M, PT1H, PT6H, PT12H, PT24H)                                                     | PT5M              |             |
| AGGREGATION        | Define how the data must be aggregated. Available aggregations: 'minimum', 'maximum', 'average', 'total' and 'count'. Can be called multiple times | Average             |             |
| FILTERMETRIC       | Filter metrics (available metrics: 'Network Out', 'Network In'). |                   |             |
| FILTERDIMENSION    | Specify the metric dimension (required for some specific metrics) Syntax example: --filter-dimension="$metricname eq '$metricvalue'". |

> | WARNINGTRAFFICIN   | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |

Reviewer: where what?

> | WARNINGTRAFFICIN   | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |
> | CRITICALTRAFFICIN  | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |
> | WARNINGTRAFFICOUT  | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |
> | CRITICALTRAFFICOUT | Thresholds where '*'                                                                               |                   |             |

Author: ```suggestion
| WARNINGTRAFFICIN   | Thresholds                                                                                |                   |             |
| CRITICALTRAFFICIN  | Thresholds                                                                                 |                   |             |
| WARNINGTRAFFICOUT  | Thresholds                                                                                |                   |             |
| CRITICALTRAFFICOUT | Thresholds                                                                                |                   |             |
```

| EXTRAOPTIONS       | Any extra option you may want to add to the command (a --verbose flag for example). All options are listed [here](#available-options). |                   |             |

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

3. [Deploy the configuration](/docs/monitoring/monitoring-servers/deploying-a-configuration). The service appears in the list of services, and on the **Resources Status** page. The command that is sent by the connector is displayed in the details panel of the service: it shows the values of the macros.

## How to check in the CLI that the configuration is OK and what are the main options for?

Once the plugin is installed, log into your Centreon poller's CLI using the
**centreon-engine** user account (`su - centreon-engine`). Test that the connector 
is able to monitor an Azure Instance using a command like this one (replace the sample values by yours):

```bash
/usr/lib/centreon/plugins/centreon_azure_database_postgres_api.pl \
	--plugin=cloud::azure::database::postgres::plugin \
	--mode=traffic \
	--custommode='api' \
	--resource='' \
	--resource-group='' \

> 	--subscription='' \
> 	--tenant='' \
> 	--client-id='' \
> 	--client-secret='' \

Author: ```suggestion
	--subscription='xxxxxxxxxxxxxx' \
	--tenant='xxxxxxxxxxxxxx' \
	--client-id='xxxxxxxxxxxxxx' \
	--client-secret='xxxxxxxxxxxxxx' \
```

> 	--subscription='' \

Reviewer: dummy values for mandatory parameters?
